Our dDTF analysis revealed that Session 4, which included the participants who came from the
original LLM group, the so-called LLM-to-Brain group, produced a distinctive neural connectivity
profile that was significantly different from progression patterns observed in Sessions 1, 2, 3 in
138the Brain-only group. While these LLM-to-Brain participants demonstrated substantial
improvements over 'initial' performance (Session 1) of Brain-only group, achieving significantly
higher connectivity across frequency bands, they consistently underperformed relative to
Session 2 of Brain-only group, and failed to develop the consolidation networks present in
Session 3 of Brain-only group. Original LLM participants might have gained in the initial skill
acquisition using LLM for a task, but it did not substitute for the deeper neural integration, which
can be observed for the original Brain-only group. Educational interventions should consider
combining AI tool assistance with tools-free learning phases to optimize both immediate skill
transfer and long-term neural development. The absence of highly significant connections (p <
0.001) in Session 4 for original LLM group's participants, indicates potential limitations in
achieving robust neural synchronization essential for complex cognitive tasks. The preserved
FC5-centered networks indicated that AI tools established basic motor coordination, but the
missing frontal-to-parietal executive networks suggest the need for additional cognitive training
components.
Regarding Session 4 participants, those who had previously written without tools (Brain-only
group), the so-called Brain-to-LLM group, exhibited significant increase in brain connectivity
across all EEG frequency bands when allowed to use an LLM on a familiar topic. This suggests
that AI-supported re-engagement invoked high levels of cognitive integration, memory
reactivation, and top-down control. By contrast, repeated LLM usage across Sessions 1, 2, 3 for
the original LLM group reflected reduced connectivity over time. These results emphasize the
dynamic interplay between cognitive scaffolding and neural engagement in AI-supported
learning contexts.
Regarding Session 4, which included the participants who came from the original Brain-only
group, from an educational standpoint, these results suggest that strategic timing of AI tool
introduction following initial self-driven effort may enhance engagement and neural integration.
The corresponding EEG markers indicate this may be a more neurocognitively optimal
sequence than consistent AI tool usage from the outset.
We interviewed all participants after the essay writing and asked them to reflect on the tools
usage, and asked them to explain what they wrote about and why. With most participants in the
Brain-only group engaging and caring more about "what" they wrote, and also "why" (see Figure
32, where participants in Session 4 used “information seeking” prompts 3 times more often than
in sessions 1, 2, 3), while the other groups briefly focused on the "how" part. During the 4th
session, when we asked participants to pick the topic, but use an opposite tool, the participants
who used no tools before, performed more fine-tuned prompts when they used LLM tools,
similar to how the Search Engine group used to compose queries in their search. Though those
participants who used LLM tools in the previous session, mostly wrote a different or a deeper
version of the essays in the 4th session.
139Behavioral Correlates of Neural Connectivity Patterns in Session 4
In Session 4, removing AI support significantly impaired the participants from original LLM
group: 78 % failed to quote anything (Question 5) and only 11 % were able to produce a correct
quote (Question 6), compared with 11 % and 78 % in the Brain‑only Group. ANOVA and t‑tests
confirmed significant group differences (p < 0.01; |t| = 3.62).
Neurophysiological data in part explained this impairment. dDTF analysis revealed that
LLM-to-Brain group lacked the robust fronto‑parietal synchronization (e.g. Fz→P4, AF3→CP6)
normally associated with deep semantic encoding and source‑memory retrieval, processes
essential for accurate quotation [107]. Moreover, the LLM‑to‑Brain participants showed no
high‑significance connectivity clusters (p < 0.001), pointing to attenuated neural connectivity
during retrieval. Although isolated FC5-centered motor networks were still present, consistent
with preserved typing routine, such activity was insufficient to compensate for reduced semantic
recall. In contrast, Brain‑to‑LLM participants (from original Brain-only group) displayed stronger
dDTF magnitudes across frontal, temporal, and occipital pathways, reflecting effective top‑down
regulation, episodic access, and re‑encoding that aligned with their superior behavioral
accuracy. These converging findings thus suggest that habitual LLM support might potentially
compromise the behavioral competence required for quoting.
This correlation between neural connectivity and behavioral quoting failure in LLM group's
participants offers evidence that:
1. Early AI reliance may result in shallow encoding.
LLM group's poor recall and incorrect quoting is a possible indicator that their earlier
essays were not internally integrated, likely due to outsourced cognitive processing to
the LLM.
2. Withholding LLM tools during early stages might support memory formation.
Brain-only group's stronger behavioral recall, supported by more robust EEG
connectivity, suggests that initial unaided effort promoted durable memory traces,
enabling more effective reactivation even when LLM tools were introduced later.
3. Metacognitive engagement is higher in the Brain-to-LLM group.
Brain-only group might have mentally compared their past unaided efforts with
tool-generated suggestions (as supported by their comments during the interviews),
engaging in self-reflection and elaborative rehearsal, a process linked to executive
control and semantic integration, as seen in their EEG profile.
The significant gap in quoting accuracy between reassigned LLM and Brain-only groups was not
merely a behavioral artifact; it is mirrored in the structure and strength of their neural
connectivity. The LLM-to-Brain group's early dependence on LLM tools appeared to have
impaired long-term semantic retention and contextual memory, limiting their ability to reconstruct
content without assistance. In contrast, Brain-to-LLM participants could leverage tools more
strategically, resulting in stronger performance and more cohesive neural signatures.
140This next finding should be considered preliminary, as a larger participant sample is needed to
confirm the claim (see Limitations section below).
Perhaps one of the more concerning findings is that participants in the LLM-to-Brain group
repeatedly focused on a narrower set of ideas, as evidenced by n-gram analysis (see topics
COURAGE, FORETHOUGHT, and PERFECT in Figures 82, 83, and 85, respectively) and
supported by interview responses. This repetition suggests that many participants may not
have engaged deeply with the topics or critically examined the material provided by the LLM.
When individuals fail to critically engage with a subject, their writing might become biased and
superficial. This pattern reflects the accumulation of cognitive debt, a condition in which
repeated reliance on external systems like LLMs replaces the effortful cognitive processes
required for independent thinking.
Cognitive debt defers mental effort in the short term but results in long-term costs, such as
diminished critical inquiry, increased vulnerability to manipulation, decreased creativity. When
participants reproduce suggestions without evaluating their accuracy or relevance, they not
only forfeit ownership of the ideas but also risk internalizing shallow or biased perspectives.
Taken together, these findings support an educational model that delays AI integration until
learners have engaged in sufficient self-driven cognitive effort. Such an approach may promote
both immediate tool efficacy and lasting cognitive autonomy.
Limitations and Future Work
In this study we had a limited number of participants recruited from a specific geographical area,
several large academic institutions, located very close to each other. For future work it will be
important to include a larger number of participants coming with diverse backgrounds like
professionals in different areas, age groups, as well as ensuring that the study is more gender
balanced.
This study was performed using ChatGPT, and though we do not believe that as of the time of
this paper publication in June 2025, there are any significant breakthroughs in any of the
commercially available models to grant a significantly different result, we cannot directly
generalize the obtained results to other LLM models. Thus, for future work it will be important to
include several LLMs and/or offer users a choice to use their preferred one, if any.
Future work may also include the use of LLMs with other modalities beyond the text, like audio
modality.
We did not divide our essay writing task into subtasks like idea generation, writing, and so on,
which is often done in prior work [76, 115]. This labeling can be useful to understand what
happens at each stage of essay writing and have more in-depth analysis.
141In our current EEG analysis we focused on reporting connectivity patterns without examining
spectral power changes, which could provide additional insights into neural efficiency. EEG's
spatial resolution limits precise localization of deep cortical or subcortical contributors (e.g.
hippocampus), thus fMRI use is the next step for our future work.
Our findings are context-dependent and are focused on writing an essay in an educational
setting and may not generalize across tasks.
Future studies should also consider exploring longitudinal impacts of tool usage on memory
retention, creativity, and writing fluency.
As datasets become increasingly contaminated with AI-generated content [116], and as the
boundary between human thought and generative AI becomes more difficult to discern [117],
future research should prioritize collecting writing samples produced without LLM assistance.
This would enable the development of a 'fingerprinted' representation of each participant's
general and domain-specific writing style [118, 119], which could be used to predict whether a
given text was authored by a particular individual rather than generated by an LLM. In this study,
conducted across multiple topics in a group setting, the evidence for detecting LLM-generated
essays is more than tangential when assessed within-group; however, the precision of this
detection remains limited due to the small sample size.
Energy Cost of Interaction
Though the focus of our paper is the cognitive “cost” of using LLM/Search Engine in a specific
task, and more specifically, the cognitive debt one might start to accumulate when using an
LLM, we actually argue that the cognitive cost is not the only concern, material and
environmental cost is as high. According to a 2023 study [120] LLM query consumes around 10
times more energy than a search query. It is important to note that this energy does not come
free, and it is more likely that the average consumer will be indirectly paying for it very soon
[121, 122].
Group
LLM
Search Engine
Energy per Query
0.3 Wh
0.03 Wh
Queries in 20 Hours
600
600
Total Energy (Wh)
180
18
Table 4. Approximate breakdown of energy requirement per hour of LLM (ChatGPT) and Search Engine (Google)
based on [120], as well as our very approximate estimates on the total energy impact by the LLM group and Search
Engine group.
Conclusions
As we stand at this technological crossroads, it becomes crucial to understand the full spectrum
of cognitive consequences associated with LLM integration in educational and informational
contexts. While these tools offer unprecedented opportunities for enhancing learning and
142information access, their potential impact on cognitive development, critical thinking, and
intellectual independence demands a very careful consideration and continued research.
The LLM undeniably reduced the friction involved in answering participants' questions compared
to the Search Engine. However, this convenience came at a cognitive cost, diminishing users'
inclination to critically evaluate the LLM's output or ”opinions” (probabilistic answers based on
the training datasets). This highlights a concerning evolution of the 'echo chamber' effect: rather
than disappearing, it has adapted to shape user exposure through algorithmically curated
content. What is ranked as “top” is ultimately influenced by the priorities of the LLM's
shareholders [123, 125].
Only a few participants in the interviews mentioned that they did not follow the “thinking” [124]
aspect of the LLMs and pursued their line of ideation and thinking.
Regarding ethical considerations, participants who were in the Brain-only group reported higher
satisfaction and demonstrated higher brain connectivity, compared to other groups. Essays
written with the help of LLM carried a lesser significance or value to the participants (impaired
ownership, Figure 8), as they spent less time on writing (Figure 33), and mostly failed to provide
a quote from theis essays (Session 1, Figure 6, Figure 7).
Human teachers “closed the loop” by detecting the LLM-generated essays, as they recognized
the conventional structure and homogeneity of the delivered points for each essay within the
topic and group.
We believe that the longitudinal studies are needed in order to understand the long-term impact
of the LLMs on the human brain, before LLMs are recognized as something that is net positive
for the humans.
Acknowledgments
We would like to thank Janet Baker for her insightful feedback on the first draft of the
manuscript. We also would like to thank Lendra Hassman and Luisa Heiss for their thorough
grading of the essays.
Author Contributions
The study was proposed, designed, and executed by NK. NK also covered roughly ¼ of all data
recording sessions with the participants. NK and EH processed and analyzed both EEG and
NLP data in this study. NK and EH drafted the manuscript. AVB, YTY, XHL were the interns of
NK, who helped with the ¾ of data recording sessions with the participants. JS and IB helped
with the state of the art drafting section of the paper. IB additionally supported audio-to-text
transcriptions of the participants' interviews. PM gave feedback on the study design and the
early draft of the manuscript.
143Conflict of Interest
At the time of this publication (June 2025), Dr. Kosmyna holds a Visiting Researcher position at
Google. All work related to this project was conducted and completed prior to Dr. Kosmyna's
affiliation with Google. The remaining authors declare no conflicts of interest.
144References
1.Peláez-Sánchez, I. C., Velarde-Camaqui, D., & Glasserman-Morales, L. D. (2024). The
impact of large language models on higher education: Exploring the connection
between AI and Education 4.0. Frontiers in Education, 9, 1392091.
https://doi.org/10.3389/feduc.2024.1392091
2.Stadler, M., Bannert, M., & Sailer, M. (2024). Cognitive ease at a cost: LLMs reduce
mental effort but compromise depth in student scientific inquiry. Computers in Human
Behavior, 160, 108386. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2024.108386
3.Gerlich, M. (2025). AI Tools in Society: Impacts on Cognitive Offloading and the Future
of Critical Thinking. Societies, 15(1), 6. https://doi.org/10.3390/soc15010006
4.Zhang, S., Zhao, X., Zhou, T., & Kim, J. H. (2024). Do you have AI dependency? The
roles of academic self efficacy, academic stress, and performance expectations on
problematic AI usage behavior. International Journal of Educational Technology in
Higher Education, 21, Article 34. https://doi.org/10.1186/s41239-024-00467-0
5.Shanmugasundaram, M., & Tamilarasu, A. (2023). The impact of digital technology,
social media, and artificial intelligence on cognitive functions: A review. Frontiers in
Cognition, 2, 1203077. https://doi.org/10.3389/fcogn.2023.1203077
6.Su, J., & Yang, W. (2023). Unlocking the Power of ChatGPT: A Framework for Applying
Generative AI in Education. ECNU Review of Education, 6(3), 355-366.
https://doi.org/10.1177/20965311231168423
7.Milana, M., Brandi, U., Hodge, S., & Hoggan-Kloubert, T. (2024). Artificial intelligence
(AI), conversational agents, and generative AI: implications for adult education practice
and research. International Journal of Lifelong Education, 43(1), 1-7.
https://doi.org/10.1080/02601370.2024.2310448
8.Bai, L., Liu, X., & Su, J. (2023). ChatGPT: The cognitive effects on learning and
memory. Brain-X, 1, e30. https://doi.org/10.1002/brx2.30
9.Sajja, R., Sermet, Y., Cikmaz, M., Cwiertny, D., & Demir, I. (2024). Artificial
Intelligence-Enabled Intelligent Assistant for Personalized and Adaptive Learning in
Higher Education. Information (Basel), 15(10), 596.
https://doi.org/10.3390/info15100596
10.Cacicio, S., & Riggs, R. (2023). ChatGPT: Leveraging AI to Support Personalized
Teaching and Learning. Adult Literacy Education: The International Journal of Literacy,
Language, and Numeracy, 5(2), 70-74. https://doi.org/10.35847/SCacicio.RRiggs.5.2.70
11.King, M. R. (2023). A Conversation on Artificial Intelligence, Chatbots, and Plagiarism in
Higher Education. Cellular and Molecular Bioengineering, 16(1), 1-2.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12195-022-00754-8
14512.Shen, Y., Heacock, L., Elias, J., Hentel, K. D., Reig, B., Shih, G., & Moy, L. (2023).
ChatGPT and Other Large Language Models Are Double-edged Swords. Radiology,
307(2), e230163-e230163. https://doi.org/10.1148/radiol.230163
13.Ahmad, S. F., Han, H., Alam, M. M., Rehmat, M. K., Irshad, M., Arraño-Muñoz, M., &
Ariza-Montes, A. (2023). Impact of artificial intelligence on human loss in decision
making, laziness and safety in education. Humanities and Social Sciences
Communications, 10, Article 311. https://doi.org/10.1057/s41599-023-01787-8
14.Kasneci, E., Seßler, K., Küchemann, S., Bannert, M., Dementieva, D., Fischer, F.,
Gasser, U., Groh, G., Günnemann, S., Hüllermeier, E., Krusche, S., Kutyniok, G.,
Michaeli, T., Nerdel, C., Pfeffer, J., Poquet, O., Sailer, M., Schmidt, A., Seidel, T., &
Kasneci, G. (2023). ChatGPT for Good? On Opportunities and Challenges of Large
Language Models for Education. Learning and Individual Differences, 103. 102274.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lindif.2023.102274
15.Pedró, F., Subosa, M., Rivas, A., & Valverde, P. (2019). Artificial intelligence in
education: Challenges and opportunities for sustainable development. UNESCO.
https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark:/48223/pf0000366994
16.Zhou, J., Muller, H., Holzinger, A., & Chen, F. (2024). Ethical ChatGPT: Concerns,
Challenges, and Commandments. Electronics (Basel), 13(17), 3417.
https://doi.org/10.3390/electronics13173417
17.Yang, T. C., Hsu, Y. C., & Wu, J. Y. (2025). The effectiveness of ChatGPT in assisting
high school students in programming learning: evidence from a quasi-experimental
research. Interactive Learning Environments, 1-18.
https://doi.org/10.1080/10494820.2025.2450659
18.Zhang, S., Zhao, X., Zhou, T., & Kim, J. H. (2024). Do you have AI dependency? The
roles of academic self-efficacy, academic stress, and performance expectations on
problematic AI usage behavior. International Journal of Educational Technology in
Higher Education, 21(1), 34-14. https://doi.org/10.1186/s41239-024-00467-0
19.Jelson, A., Manesh, D., Jang, A., Dunlap, D., & Lee, S. W. (2025). An Empirical Study
to Understand How Students Use ChatGPT for Writing Essays. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2501.10551. https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.10551
20.Wang, J., & Fan, W. (2025). The effect of ChatGPT on students' learning performance,
learning perception, and higher-order thinking: Insights from a meta-analysis.
Humanities and Social Sciences Communications, 12, 621.
https://doi.org/10.1057/s41599-025-04787-y
21.Turner, E., & Rainie, L. (2020, March 5). Most Americans rely on their own research to
make big decisions, and that often means online searches. Pew Research Center.
Retrieved March 17, 2025, from
146https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2020/03/05/most-americans-rely-on-their-own
-research-to-make-big-decisions-and-that-often-means-online-searches/
22.von Hoyer, J., Hoppe, A., Kammerer, Y., Otto, C., Pardi, G., Rokicki, M., Yu, R., Dietze,
S., Ewerth, R., & Holtz, P. (2022). The Search as Learning Spaceship: Toward a
comprehensive model of psychological and technological facets of Search as Learning.
Frontiers in Psychology, 13, 827748. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.827748
23.Zimmerman, B. J. (2000). Attaining self-regulation. In Handbook of self-regulation
(pp.13-39). Elsevier. https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-012109890-2/50031-7.
24.Willoughby, T., Anderson, S. A., Wood, E., Mueller, J., & Ross, C. (2009). Fast
searching for information on the Internet to use in a learning context: The impact of
domain knowledge. Computers and Education, 52(3), 640-648.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2008.11.009
25.Moos, D. C., & Azevedo, R. (2008). Self-regulated learning with hypermedia: The role
of prior domain knowledge. Contemporary Educational Psychology, 33(2), 270-298.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cedpsych.2007.03.001
26.Azevedo, R. (2005). Using hypermedia as a metacognitive tool for enhancing student
learning? The role of self-regulated learning. Educational Psychologist, 40(4),199-209.
https://doi.org/10.1207/s15326985ep4004_2
27.Opfermann, M., Azevedo, R., & Leutner, D. (2012). Metacognition and hypermedia
learning: How do they relate? In N. M. Seel (Ed.), Encyclopedia of the sciences of
learning (pp. 2224-2228). Springer US. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4419-1428-6_709
28.Whipp, J. L., & Chiarelli, S. (2004). Self-regulation in a web-based course: A case study.
Educational Technology Research & Development, 52(4), 5-21.
https://doi.org/10.1007/BF02504714
29.Sparrow, B., Liu, J., & Wegner, D. M. (2011). Google effects on memory: Cognitive
consequences of having information at our fingertips. Science, 333(6043), 776-778.
https://doi.org/10.1126/science.1207745
30.Sweller, J. (1988). Cognitive load during problem solving: effects on learning. Cognitive
Science, 12, 275-285.
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1207/s15516709cog1202_4
31.Sundararajan, N., & Adesope, O. (2020). Keep it coherent: A meta-analysis of the
seductive details effect. Educational Psychology Review, 32(3), 707-734.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10648-020-09522-4
32.Mutlu-Bayraktar, D., Cosgun, V., & Altan, T. (2019). Cognitive load in multimedia
learning environments: A systematic review. Computers & Education, 141, Article
103618. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2019.103618
14733.Chen, O., Kalyuga, S., & Sweller, J. (2017). The expertise reversal effect is a variant of
the more general element interactivity effect. Educational Psychology Review,
29(2),393-405. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10648-016-9359-1
34.Klepsch, M., Schmitz, F., & Seufert, T. (2017). Development and validation of two
instruments measuring intrinsic, extraneous, and germane cognitive load. Frontiers in
Psychology, 8, 1997. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2017.01997
35.Paas, F., & van Gog, T. (2006). Optimising worked example instruction: Different ways
to increase germane cognitive load. Learning and Instruction, 16(2), 87-91.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.learninstruc.2006.02.004
36.Gwizdka, J. (2010). Distribution of cognitive load in Web search. Journal of the
Association for Information Science and Technology, 61(11), 2167-2187.
https://doi.org/10.1002/asi.21385
37.Gong, C., & Yang, Y. (2024). Google effects on memory: A meta-analytical review of the
media effects of intensive Internet search behavior. Frontiers in Public Health, 12,
Article 1332030. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpubh.2024.1332030
38.Al-Samarraie, H., & Al-Hatem, A. I. (2018). The Effect of Web Search Result Display on
Users' Perceptual Experience and Information Seeking Performance. The Reference
Librarian, 59(1), 10-18. https://doi.org/10.1080/02763877.2017.1399849
39.Gwizdka, J. (2009). Individual differences in cognitive load during web search: Impacts
on task efficiency and strategy. The Ergonomics Open Journal, 2(1), 114-121.
40.Stadler, M., Bannert, M., & Sailer, M. (2024). Cognitive ease at a cost: LLMs reduce
mental effort but compromise depth in student scientific inquiry. Computers in Human
Behavior, 160, 108386. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2024.108386
41.Schmidhuber, J., Schlogl, S., Ploder, C., Kaber, D., Fortino, G., Guerrieri, A.,
Nurnberger, A., Mendonca, D., Yu, Z., & Schilling, M. (2021). Cognitive Load and
Productivity Implications in Human-Chatbot Interaction. 2021 IEEE 2nd International
Conference on Human-Machine Systems (ICHMS), 1-6.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICHMS53169.2021.9582445
42.Lee, H.-P., Sarkar, A., Tankelevitch, L., Drosos, I., Rintel, S., Banks, R., & Wilson, N.
(2025, April). The impact of generative AI on critical thinking: Self-reported reductions in
cognitive effort and confidence effects from a survey of knowledge workers. In
Proceedings of the ACM CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems.
ACM. https://doi.org/10.1145/3706598.3713778
43.Yang, Y., Shin, A., Kang, M., Kang, J., & Song, J. Y. (2024). Can We Delegate Learning
to Automation?: A Comparative Study of LLM Chatbots, Search Engines, and Books.
https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2410.01396
14844.O'Brien, H. L., & Toms, E. G. (2008). What is user engagement? A conceptual
framework for defining user engagement with technology. Journal of the American
Society for Information Science and Technology, 59(6), 938-955.
https://doi.org/10.1002/asi.20801
45.O'Brien, H. L., Cairns, P., & Hall, M. (2018). A practical approach to measuring user
engagement with the refined user engagement scale (UES) and new UES short form.
International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, 112, 28-39.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhcs.2018.01.004
46.Webster, J., & Ho, H. (1997). Audience engagement in multimedia presentations. The
DATA BASE for Advances in Information Systems, 28(2), 63 77.
https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/264701.264706
47.Ouyang, Z., Jiang, Y., & Liu, H. (2024). The Effects of Duolingo, an AI-Integrated
Technology, on EFL Learners' Willingness to Communicate and Engagement in Online
Classes. International Review of Research in Open and Distance Learning, 25(3),
97-115. https://doi.org/10.19173/irrodl.v25i3.7677
48.Cao, C. C., Ding, Z., Lin, J., & Hopfgartner, F. (2023). AI Chatbots as Multi-Role
Pedagogical Agents: Transforming Engagement in CS Education. arXiv (Cornell
University). https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2308.03992
49.Sullivan, M., Kelly, A., & McLaughlan, P. (2023). ChatGPT in higher education:
Considerations for academic integrity and student learning. Journal of Applied Learning
and Teaching, 6(1), 31-40. https://doi.org/10.37074/jalt.2023.6.1.17
50.Deng, X., & Yu, Z. (2023). A Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review of the Effect of
Chatbot Technology Use in Sustainable Education. Sustainability, 15(4), 2940.
https://doi.org/10.3390/su15042940
51.Small, G. W., Moody, T. D., Siddarth, P., & Bookheimer, S. Y. (2009). Your brain on
Google: Patterns of cerebral activation during Internet searching. The American Journal
of Geriatric Psychiatry, 17(2), 116-126. https://doi.org/10.1097/JGP.0b013e3181953a02
52.Bromberg-Martin, E. S., & Monosov, I. E. (2020). Neural circuitry of information seeking.
Current Opinion in Behavioral Sciences, 35, 62-70.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cobeha.2020.07.006
53.Dong, G., Potenza, M. N., Michel, C. M., & Michel, C. M. (2015). Behavioural and brain
responses related to Internet search and memory. The European Journal of
Neuroscience, 42(8), 2546-2554. https://doi.org/10.1111/ejn.13039
54.Causse, M., Lepron, E., Mandrick, K., Peysakhovich, V., Berry, I., Callan, D., & Rémy, F.
(2022). Facing successfully high mental workload and stressors: An fMRI study. Human
Brain Mapping, 43(3), 1011-1031. https://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.25703
14955.Fan, Y., Tang, L., Le, H., Shen, K., Tan, S., Zhao, Y., Shen, Y., Li, X. and Gašević, D.,
(2024). Beware of metacognitive laziness: Effects of generative artificial intelligence on
learning motivation, processes, and performance. British Journal of Educational
Technology. https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.09315
56.Herbold, S., Hautli-Janisz, A., Heuer, U., Vogel, L., Müller, R., & Brandt, M. (2023). A
large-scale comparison of human-written versus ChatGPT-generated essays. Scientific
Reports, 13, 18617. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-45644-9
57.Niloy, A. C., Akter, S., Sultana, N., Sultana, J., & Rahman, S. I. U. (2024). Is Chatgpt
a menace for creative writing ability? An experiment. Journal of Computer Assisted
Learning, 40(2), 919-930. https://doi.org/10.1111/jcal.12929
58.Stahl, M., Biermann, L., Nehring, A., & Wachsmuth, H. (2024). Exploring LLM prompting
strategies for joint essay scoring and feedback generation. In Proceedings of the 19th
Workshop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications (pp.
283-298). https://aclanthology.org/2024.bea-1.23/
59.Lee, S., Cai, Y., Meng, D., Wang, Z., & Wu, Y. (2024). Unleashing Large Language
Models' Proficiency in Zero-shot Essay Scoring.
https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2404.04941
60.Shao, Y., Jiang, Y., Kanell, T. A., Xu, P., Khattab, O., & Lam, M. S. (2024). Assisting in
Writing Wikipedia-like Articles From Scratch with Large Language Models.
https://doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2402.14207
61.Avin, C., Daltrophe, H., & Lotker, Z. (2024). On the impossibility of breaking the echo
chamber effect in social media using regulation. Scientific Reports, 14, 1107.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-023-50850-6
62.Leung, E., & Urminsky, O. (2025). The narrow search effect and how broadening search
promotes belief updating. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the
United States of America, 122(13), e2408175122.
https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2408175122
63.Sharma, N., Liao, Q. V., & Xiao, Z. (2024). Generative echo chamber? Effect of
LLM-powered search systems on diverse information seeking. In Proceedings of the
CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI '24) (pp. 1-17). ACM.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3613904.3642459
64.Huang, H., Wang, Y., Rudin, C., & Browne, E. P. (2022). Towards a comprehensive
evaluation of dimension reduction methods for transcriptomic data visualization.
Communications Biology, 5, 719. https://doi.org/10.1038/s42003-022-03628-x
65.Hare, A., Chen, Y., Liu, Y., Liu, Z., & Brinton, C. G. (2020). On extending NLP
techniques from the categorical to the latent space: KL divergence, Zipf's law, and
similarity search. arXiv preprint arXiv:2012.01941 https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.01941
15066.Kong, W., Hombaiah, S. A., Zhang, M., Mei, Q., & Bendersky, M. (2024). PRewrite:
Prompt rewriting with reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.08189
https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.08189
67.Zhang, S., Hu, Y., & Bian, G. (2017). Research on string similarity algorithm based on
Levenshtein distance. In 2017 IEEE 2nd Advanced Information Technology, Electronic
and Automation Control Conference (IAEAC) (pp. 2247-2251). IEEE.
https://doi.org/10.1109/IAEAC.2017.8054419
68.Chen, Y., Arkin, J., Hao, Y., Zhang, Y., Roy, N., & Fan, C. (2024). PRompt Optimization
in Multi-Step Tasks (PROMST): Integrating Human Feedback and Heuristic-based
Sampling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.08702 https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.08702
69.Bröhl, F., & Kayser, C. (2021). Delta/theta band EEG differentially tracks low and high
frequency speech-derived envelopes. NeuroImage, 233, 117958.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2021.117958
70.Korzeniewska, A., Mańczak, M., Kamiński, M., Blinowska, K. J., & Kasicki, S. (2003).
Determination of information flow direction among brain structures by a modified
directed transfer function (dDTF) method. Journal of Neuroscience Methods, 125(1-2),
195-207. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0165-0270(03)00052-9
71.Fang, Z., Zhang, H., Liu, Y., Li, Y., He, H., & Yao, D. (2024). Joint order and coefficient
estimation for MVAR models using group sparsity. In 2024 32nd European Signal
Processing Conference (EUSIPCO) (pp. 2292-2296). IEEE.
https://doi.org/10.23919/EUSIPCO63174.2024.10715190
72.Porcaro, C., Zappasodi, F., Rossini, P. M., & Tecchio, F. (2009). Choice of multivariate
autoregressive model order affecting real network functional connectivity estimate.
Clinical Neurophysiology, 120(2), 436-448. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clinph.2008.11.011
73.Weiss, T., Hesse, W., Ungureanu, M., Hecht, H., Leistritz, L., Witte, H., & Miltner, W. H.
R. (2008). How do brain areas communicate during the processing of noxious stimuli?
An analysis of laser-evoked event-related potentials using the Granger causality index.
Journal of Neurophysiology, 99(5), 2220-2231. https://doi.org/10.1152/jn.01161.2007
74.Li, M., & Zhang, N. (2022). A dynamic directed transfer function for brain functional
network-based feature extraction. Brain Informatics, 9, 7.
https://doi.org/10.1186/s40708-022-00154-8
75.Fink, A., & Benedek, M. (2014). EEG alpha power and creative ideation. Neuroscience
and biobehavioral reviews, 44(100), 111-123.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neubiorev.2012.12.002
76.Cruz-Garza, J. G., Ravindran, A. S., Kopteva, A. E., Rivera Garza, C., &
Contreras-Vidal, J. L. (2020). Characterization of the stages of creative writing with
151mobile EEG using generalized partial directed coherence. Frontiers in Human
Neuroscience, 14, 577651. https://doi.org/10.3389/fnhum.2020.577651
77.Xie, Y. J., Li, Y., Duan, H. D., Xu, X. L., Zhang, W. M., & Fang, P. (2021). Theta
oscillations and source connectivity during complex audiovisual object encoding in
working memory. Frontiers in Human Neuroscience, 15, 614950.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fnhum.2021.614950
78.Safari, M., Shalbaf, R., Bagherzadeh, S., & Mohammadi, A. (2024). Classification of
mental workload using brain connectivity and machine learning on
electroencephalogram data. Scientific Reports, 14, 9153.
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-024-59652-w
79.Krumm, G., Arán Filippetti, V., Catanzariti, M., & Mateos, D. M. (2025). Exploring the
neural basis of creativity: EEG analysis of power spectrum and functional connectivity
during creative tasks in school-aged children. Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience,
19, 1548620. https://doi.org/10.3389/fncom.2025.1548620
80.Bhattacharya, J., & Petsche, H. (2005). Drawing on mind's canvas: Differences in
cortical integration patterns between artists and non-artists. Human Brain Mapping,
26(1), 1-14. https://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.20104
81.Razumnikova, O., Volf, N., & Tarasova, I. (2009). Strategy and results: Sex differences
in electrographic correlates of verbal and figural creativity. Hum. Physiol. 35, 285-294.
doi: 10.1134/S0362119709030049
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1134/S0362119709030049
82.Boot, N., Baas, M., Mühlfeld, E., de Dreu, C. K., & van Gaal, S. (2017). Widespread
neural oscillations in the delta band dissociate rule convergence from rule divergence
during creative idea generation. Neuropsychologia 104, 8-17. doi:
10.1016/j.neuropsychologia.2017.07.033 https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28774832/
83.Dong, G., & Potenza, M. N. (2016). Short-term internet-search practicing modulates
brain activity during recollection. Neuroscience, 335, 82-90.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroscience.2016.08.028
84.Sauseng, P., Griesmayr, B., Freunberger, R., & Klimesch, W. (2010). Control
mechanisms in working memory: A possible function of EEG theta oscillations.
Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews, 34(7), 1015-1022.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neubiorev.2009.12.006
85.Harmony, T. (2013). The functional significance of delta oscillations in cognitive
processing. Frontiers in Integrative Neuroscience, 7, 83.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fnint.2013.00083
15286.Burgess, A. P., & Gruzelier, J. (1997). How reproducible is the topographical distribution
of EEG amplitude? International Journal of Psychophysiology, 26(2), 113-119.
https://doi.org/10.1016/s0167-8760(97)00759-9
87.Onton, J., Delorme, A., & Makeig, S. (2005). Frontal midline EEG dynamics during
working memory. NeuroImage, 27(2), 341-356.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2005.04.014
88.Chen, Y., & Huang, X. (2015). Modulation of alpha and beta oscillations during an
n-back task with varying temporal memory load. Frontiers in Psychology, 6, 2031.
https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2015.02031
89.Kopell, N., Ermentrout, G., Whittington, M., & Traub, R. (2000). Gamma rhythms and
beta rhythms have different synchronization properties. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 97(4), 1867-1872.
https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.97.4.1867
90.Varela, F., Lachaux, J., Rodriguez, E., & Martinerie, J. (2001). The brainweb: Phase
synchronization and large-scale integration. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 2(4),
229-239. https://doi.org/10.1038/35067550
91.Engel, A. K., & Fries, P. (2010). Beta-band oscillations—Signalling the status quo?
Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 20(2), 156-165.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.conb.2010.02.015
92.Benchenane, K., Tiesinga, P., & Battaglia, F. (2011). Oscillations in the prefrontal cortex:
A gateway to memory and attention. Current Opinion in Neurobiology, 21(3), 475-485.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.conb.2011.01.004
93.Donner, T. H., & Siegel, M. (2011). A framework for local cortical oscillation patterns.
Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 15(5), 191-199. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tics.2011.03.007
94.Kilavik, B., Zaepffel, M., Brovelli, A., Mackay, W., & Riehle, A. (2013). The ups and
downs of β oscillations in sensorimotor cortex. Experimental Neurology, 245, 15-26.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.expneurol.2012.09.014
95.Spitzer, B., & Haegens, S. (2017). Beyond the status quo: A role for beta oscillations in
endogenous content (re)activation. eNeuro, 4(4), ENEURO.0170-17.2017.
https://doi.org/10.1523/ENEURO.0170-17.2017
96.Budiyono, Herman. (2025). Exploring long-term impact of AI writing tools on
independent writing skills: A case study of Indonesian language education students.
International Journal of Information and Education Technology, 15(5), 1003-1013.
https://doi.org/10.18178/ijiet.2025.15.5.2306
97.Harmony, T., Hinojosa, G., Marosi, E., Becker, J., Rodriguez, M., Reyes, A., &
Fernández, T. (1990). Correlation between EEG spectral parameters and an
153educational evaluation. International Journal of Neuroscience, 54(1-2), 147-155.
https://doi.org/10.3109/00207459008986630
98.Haslinger, B., Erhard, P., Altenmüller, E., Hennenlotter, A., Schwaiger, M., Gräfin von
Einsiedel, H., Rummeny, E., Conrad, B., & Ceballos-Baumann, A. O. (2004). Reduced
recruitment of motor association areas during bimanual coordination in concert pianists.
Human brain mapping, 22(3), 206-215. https://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.20028
99.Krings, T., Töpper, R., Foltys, H., Erberich, S., Sparing, R., Willmes, K., & Thron, A.
(2000). Cortical activation patterns during complex motor tasks in piano players and
control subjects. A functional magnetic resonance imaging study. Neuroscience letters,
278(3), 189-193. https://doi.org/10.1016/s0304-3940(99)00930-1
100.Monsell, S. (2003). Task switching. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 7(3), 134-140.
https://doi.org/10.1016/s1364-6613(03)00028-7
101.Dosenbach, N. U., Fair, D. A., Cohen, A. L., Schlaggar, B. L., & Petersen, S. E. (2008).
A dual-networks architecture of top-down control. Trends in cognitive sciences, 12(3),
99-105. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tics.2008.01.001
102.Clark, A., & Chalmers, D. J. (1998). The extended mind. Analysis, 58(1), 7-19.
https://doi.org/10.1093/analys/58.1.7
103.Klimesch, W. (1999). EEG alpha and theta oscillations reflect cognitive and memory
performance: A review and analysis. Brain Research Reviews, 29(2-3), 169-195.
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0165-0173(98)00056-3
104.Kahana, M. J., Seelig, D., & Madsen, J. R. (2001). Theta returns. Current Opinion in
Neurobiology, 11(6), 739-744. https://doi.org/10.1016/S0959-4388(01)00278-1
105.Jung-Beeman, M., Bowden, E. M., Haberman, J., Frymiare, J. L., Arambel-Liu, S.,
Greenblatt, R., Reber, P. J., & Kounios, J. (2004). Neural activity when people solve
verbal problems with insight. PLOS Biology, 2(4), e97.
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.0020097
106.Botvinick, M. M., Braver, T. S., Barch, D. M., Carter, C. S., & Cohen, J. D. (2001).
Conflict monitoring and cognitive control. Psychological Review, 108(3), 624-652.
https://doi.org/10.1037/0033-295X.108.3.624
107.Cabeza, R., Ciaramelli, E., Olson, I. R., & Moscovitch, M. (2008). The parietal cortex
and episodic memory: an attentional account. Nature reviews. Neuroscience, 9(8),
613-625. https://doi.org/10.1038/nrn2459
108.Anwar, M. S., Schoenebeck, G., & Dhillon, P. S. (2024). Filter bubble or
homogenization? Disentangling the long-term effects of recommendations on user
consumption patterns. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2024 (WWW
'24)(pp. 123-134). Association for Computing Machinery.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3589334.3645497
154109.Kawasaki, M., Kitajo, K., & Yamaguchi, Y. (2014). Fronto-parietal and fronto-temporal
theta phase synchronization for visual and auditory-verbal working memory. Frontiers in
Psychology, 5, 200. https://doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2014.00200
110.Wang, R., Ge, S., Zommara, N., Ravienna, K., Espinoza, T., & Iramina, K. (2019).
Consistency and dynamical changes of directional information flow in different brain
states: A comparison of working memory and resting-state using EEG. NeuroImage,
203, 116188. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.116188
111.Cavanagh, J. F., & Frank, M. J. (2014). Frontal theta as a mechanism for cognitive
control. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 18(8), 414-421.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tics.2014.04.012
112.Wokke, M. E., Padding, L., & Ridderinkhof, K. (2019). Creative brains show reduced
mid frontal theta. bioRxiv, 370494. https://doi.org/10.1101/370494
113.Risko, E. F., & Gilbert, S. J. (2016). Cognitive offloading. Trends in cognitive sciences,
20(9), 676-688.
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1364661316300985
114.Google Books Ngram Viewer. (2025, June 8). Retrieved from
https://books.google.com/ngrams/graph?content=he%2Cshe%2Chis%2Chers%2Ctheir
%2Cmine%2Cmy%2CI&year_start=1800&year_end=2022&corpus=en&smoothing=0
115.Shah, C., Erhard, K., Ortheil, H. J., Kaza, E., Kessler, C., & Lotze, M. (2013). Neural
correlates of creative writing: an fMRI study. Human brain mapping, 34(5), 1088-1101.
https://doi.org/10.1002/hbm.21493
116.Shumailov, I., Shumaylov, Z., Zhao, Y., Gal, Y., Papernot, N., & Anderson, R. (2023).
The curse of recursion: Training on generated data makes models forget. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.17493. https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.17493
117.Xing, X., Shi, F., Huang, J., Zhang, X., & Wu, Y. (2025). On the caveats of AI autophagy.
Nature Machine Intelligence, 7, 172-180. https://doi.org/10.1038/s42256-025-00984-1
118.Annamalai, M. S. M. S., Bilogrevic, I., & De Cristofaro, E. (2025). Beyond the Crawl:
Unmasking Browser Fingerprinting in Real User Interactions. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.01608. https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.01608
119.Lawall, A. (2024). Fingerprinting and Tracing Shadows: The Development and Impact of
Browser Fingerprinting on Digital Privacy. arXiv preprint arXiv:2411.12045.
https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.12045
120.de Vries, A. (2023). The growing energy footprint of artificial intelligence. Joule, 7(10),
2191-2194. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2023.09.004
121.Martin, E., & Peskoe, A. (2025, March). Extracting profits from the public: How utility
ratepayers are paying for Big Tech's power. Environmental and Energy Law Program,
155Harvard Law School. Retrieved June 8, 2025, from
https://eelp.law.harvard.edu/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/Harvard-ELI-Extracting-Profits
-from-the-Public.pdf
122.O'Donnell, J., & Crownhart, C. (2025, May 20). We did the math on AI's energy
footprint. Here's the story you haven't heard. MIT Technology Review. Retrieved June 8,
2025, from
https://www.technologyreview.com/2025/05/20/1116327/ai-energy-usage-climate-footpri
nt-big-tech/
123.Ning, L., Liu, L., Wu, J., Wu, N., Berlowitz, D., Prakash, S., ... & Xie, J. (2025, May).
User-LLM: Efficient LLM contextualization with user embeddings. In Companion
Proceedings of the ACM on Web Conference 2025 (pp. 1219-1223).
https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.13598
124.Shojaee, P., Mirzadeh, I., Alizadeh, K., Horton, M., Bengio, S., & Farajtabar, M. (2025,
June). The illusion of thinking: Understanding the strengths and limitations of reasoning
models via the lens of problem complexity. Retrieved June 8, 2025, from
https://ml-site.cdn-apple.com/papers/the-illusion-of-thinking.pdf
125.Rofouei, M., Shukla, A., Wei, Q., et al. (2024). Search with stateful chat (U.S. Patent
Application No. US 2024/0289407 A1). Google LLC. Retrieved from
https://patents.google.com/patent/US20240289407A1/en
126.Kleinberg, J., Ludwig, J., Mullainathan, S., & Sunstein, C. R. (2019). Discrimination in
the age of algorithms. SSRN. https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3329669
127.Manyika, J., Silberg, J., & Presten, B. (2019, October). What do we do about the biases
in AI? Harvard Business Review. Retrieved from
https://hbr.org/2019/10/what-do-we-do-about-the-biases-in-ai
128.Enobio 32 headset:
https://www.neuroelectrics.com/products/research/enobio/enobio-32
156Appendix
A: List of clusters for Figure 56.
PaCMAP defined clusters of the interview insights between session 4 and sessions 1, 2, 3. The
insights quoted below for each cluster on the map, top to bottom, left to right.
1. The respondent recalled a direct quote from their essay, which was a quote from
Spider-Man: "With great power comes great responsibility."
2. The respondent chose the prompt about thinking before speaking because they found it
more down-to-earth and relevant, as opposed to the other prompts which they
considered more challenging or less personal.
3. They expressed that 20 minutes may not be enough time to write a more analytical
essay, but found the format of the current essay to be more relaxed.
4. The respondent followed a specific structure in their essay, starting with an introduction
referencing the main topic, then discussing the problem and posing a question.
5. They recall that their essay is about the benefits of having choices, as it allows
exploration of different pleasures and keeps the brain stimulated.
6. The respondent initially struggled to find examples and used ChatGPT to generate
examples and combine outputs to create an introduction.
7. The respondent chose the prompt about the importance of thinking before speaking.
8. The respondent's writing process involved initially pouring out thoughts in scattered lines
or words, then drawing from personal experience with a book that changed their
perspective.
9. The respondent did not use any outside sources to help with their essay and only did a
basic proofread as they finished each paragraph, without thoroughly reviewing the entire
essay at the end.
10. The respondent expressed that they value making their own ideas and are a fan of
not relying on AI for generating ideas, believing their own ideas are more intuitive
and sufficient.
11. This suggests that the respondent values individuality and the freedom to express
oneself, and sees these as key components of a perfect society.
12. The respondent chose the third topic, seeking to gather more information and contradict
the main tendency of the text to create a more enriching essay.
13. They attempted to quote from their essay but couldn't remember it word for word.
14. They recalled the content of their essay, which analyzed the importance of thinking
before speaking in terms of learning empathy and social acceptance, as well as the
potential drawbacks of this practice, such as encouraging dishonesty or undermining
relationships.
15. They used ChatGPT to generate an introduction and elaborate on the idea, then revised
the output to fit their thoughts.
157B: Dynamic Direct Transfer Function (dDTF) for Alpha band
for participants 36 and 43
Alpha, Participant 36Alpha, Participant 43
0%100%
Dynamic Direct Transfer Function (dDTF) for Alpha band for participants 36 and 43, where they
wrote on the same topic in their respective sessions using no tools or LLM. First two rows show
the dDTF for all pairs of 32 electrodes = 1024 total. Blue is the lowest dDTF value, red is the
highest dDTF value. Third row (P values) shows only significant pairs, where red ones are the
most significant and blue ones are the least significant (but still below 0.05 threshold). Last two
rows show only significant dDTF values filtered using the third row of p values, and normalized
by the min and max ones in the last two rows. Thinnest blue lines represent significant but weak
dDTF values, and red thick lines represent significant and strong dDTF values.
158C: Aggregated dDTF for sessions 1, 2, 3 in LLM
Aggregated dDTF connectivity averaged across sessions 1,2,3 for the LLM group. Columns are
split into two sections: from and to, each section includes sum of total connections per area of
the brain (first column) and total sum of connections going either from that area (left columns)
or to that area (right columns).
D: Aggregated dDTF for sessions 1, 2, 3 in Search
Aggregated dDTF connectivity averaged across sessions 1,2,3 for the Search group. Columns
are split into two sections: from and to, each section includes sum of total connections per area
159of the brain (first column) and total sum of connections going either from that area (left columns)
or to that area (right columns).
E: Aggregated dDTF for sessions 1,2, 3 in Brain-only
Aggregated dDTF connectivity averaged across sessions 1,2,3 for the Brain-only group.
Columns are split into two sections: from and to, each section includes sum of total connections
per area of the brain (first column) and total sum of connections going either from that area (left
columns) or to that area (right columns).
160F: Alpha dDTF LLM vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
***
***
**
**
*
*
Sum
2.730
2.222
0.053
0.009
0.767
0.290
1.923
1.910
Name
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
LLM
Brain
Patterns
Count
79
42
Pattern
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
***
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
From
P7
FC6
CP6
PO4
FC6
Oz
T7
Pz
P4
FC5
To
T8
Fz
T8
AF3
T8
Fz
Fz
T8
Fz
T8
LLM
0.0091869002
0.0113166869
0.0112549635
0.0091367876
0.0113143707
0.0106904423
0.0122998161
0.0095421365
0.0103366850
0.0138053717
Brain
0.0529536828
0.0279001091
0.0416117907
0.0246125832
0.0350547880
0.0230723675
0.0268373974
0.0476816930
0.0233853552
0.0386272334
Pattern
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
G: Beta dDTF LLM vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
Sum
2.681
2.451
0.832
0.506
1.945
Name
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
LLM
161*
1.850
Brain
Patterns
Count
58
49
Pattern
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
Top 26 significant dDTF
_
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
From
Fp2
P7
FC1
PO3
T7
Fz
P8
FC5
F8
FC2
FC6
O2
P7
P4
F8
CP6
P8
Pz
FC6
C4
FC5
F4
P4
FC1
F3
Fp1
To
Pz
T8
Pz
Pz
T8
T8
AF4
Pz
T8
Fz
T8
T8
Pz
AF3
Pz
T8
Pz
T8
CP5
Pz
T8
AF4
T8
T8
Pz
Pz
LLM
0.0268734414
0.0114481049
0.0245060250
0.0268790368
0.0148090106
0.0149086686
0.0095465975
0.0267121531
0.0165394638
0.0149950366
0.0150322346
0.0136964675
0.0222157203
0.0111871595
0.0203001443
0.0149469562
0.0285608303
0.0165636726
0.0408940725
0.0243674088
0.0152312517
0.0095297098
0.0152677326
0.0112978062
0.0319796242
0.0281098075
Brain
0.0059849266
0.0647280365
0.0067248377
0.0061082132
0.0598439611
0.0680834651
0.0201023500
0.0050002495
0.0643737987
0.0295656119
0.0583624989
0.0580884293
0.0081448443
0.0247894693
0.0079710735
0.0525266677
0.0088888947
0.0625270307
0.0080263084
0.0068986514
0.0626650229
0.0184829887
0.0523579717
0.0503019579
0.0107475435
0.0102436999
Pattern
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
LLM > Brain
H: Delta dDTF LLM vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Sum
Name
162Total
Total
***
***
**
**
*
*
2.545
1.653
0.043
0.013
0.872
0.318
1.631
1.322
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Patterns
Count
78
31
Pattern
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
***
***
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
From
T7
FC6
F3
CP6
CP6
Fp2
T8
FC2
P4
Oz
To
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
T8
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
Fz
LLM
0.0074716280
0.0054353494
0.0075298855
0.0073925317
0.0107971150
0.0083688805
0.0068712635
0.0085399710
0.0082020517
0.0100512300
Brain
0.0223645046
0.0201428551
0.0257361252
0.0241515450
0.0490640439
0.0227700062
0.0182740521
0.0232966952
0.0219675917
0.0278850943
Pattern
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
I: High Alpha dDTF LLM vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
***
***
**
**
*
*
Sum
2.928
2.439
0.055
0.009
0.766
0.376
2.108
2.055
Name
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
163Patterns
Count
77
49
Pattern
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
***
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
From
P7
P4
FC6
PO4
CP6
FC6
Oz
CP2
FC5
Pz
To
T8
Fz
Fz
AF3
T8
T8
Fz
Fz
T8
T8
LLM
0.0087268399
0.0107756360
0.0114072077
0.0091518704
0.0110019511
0.0111940717
0.0105614020
0.0097671989
0.0140505387
0.0095284050
Brain
0.0545931868
0.0260119103
0.0289099514
0.0235124528
0.0421626605
0.0386485755
0.0231066179
0.0349607170
0.0461288802
0.0487752780
Pattern
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
J: High Beta dDTF LLM vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
2.552
2.285
0.694
0.412
1.873
1.858
Name
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
LLM
Brain
Patterns
Count
55
42
Pattern
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
Top 20 significant dDTF
_
**
**
**
From
Fp2
PO3
FC1
To
Pz
Pz
Pz
LLM
0.0265892912
0.0282669626
0.0242188685
Brain
0.0066436757
0.0064946548
0.0064837052
Pattern
LLM > Brain
LLM > Brain
LLM > Brain
164**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
Fz
P7
T7
T8
F8
C4
O2
F4
FC6
P8
F8
P4
FC5
C3
FC6
FC1
O2
T8
T8
T8
P4
T8
Pz
T8
AF4
CP5
Pz
Pz
T8
T8
O2
T8
T8
CP5
0.0152041661
0.0123751750
0.0158643443
0.0119353337
0.0172934420
0.0242009573
0.0144430827
0.0092077078
0.0419555381
0.0279920157
0.0204040278
0.0148971742
0.0156704187
0.0268708225
0.0169023499
0.0123128556
0.0352628715
0.0725253895
0.0666672587
0.0649675727
0.0269699972
0.0693298057
0.0065487069
0.0609002896
0.0182561763
0.0083113704
0.0090314373
0.0077640838
0.0582551882
0.0654972717
0.0104003549
0.0631054193
0.0561659895
0.0097265374
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
LLM > Brain
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
K: High Delta dDTF LLM vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
***
***
**
**
*
*
Sum
2.339
1.664
0.023
0.006
0.581
0.239
1.735
1.419
Name
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Patterns
Count
73
34
Pattern
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
***
**
From
FC6
T7
To
AF3
AF3
LLM
0.0062110736
0.0089167291
Brain
0.0227708146
0.0215739533
Pattern
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
165**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
F3
Pz
Oz
CP6
FC2
Fz
AF3
FC6
AF3
T8
Fz
T8
CP5
CP5
F4
T8
0.0074937399
0.0093991943
0.0094799008
0.0120373992
0.0342177972
0.0310014170
0.0107550854
0.0094750440
0.0248456690
0.0468148254
0.0313004218
0.0413871817
0.0065052398
0.0068577179
0.0258724689
0.0359884873
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
L: Low Alpha dDTF LLM vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
***
***
**
**
*
*
Sum
2.675
2.164
0.051
0.010
0.728
0.299
1.895
1.856
Name
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Patterns
Count
79
39
Pattern
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
***
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
From
P7
T7
Pz
CP6
Oz
FC6
F3
PO4
PO3
FC6
To
T8
Fz
T8
T8
Fz
T8
AF3
AF3
T8
Fz
LLM
0.0096444143
0.0116908709
0.0095536374
0.0115093617
0.0108193774
0.0114357788
0.0099426443
0.0091201179
0.0099814478
0.0112248324
Brain
0.0513136312
0.0262509659
0.0465927720
0.0410749801
0.0230358429
0.0314576216
0.0289530922
0.0257109832
0.0419913270
0.0268873852
Pattern
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
166M: Low Beta dDTF LLM vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
***
***
**
**
*
*
Sum
2.854
2.653
0.057
0.009
0.771
0.453
2.191
2.026
Name
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
LLM
Brain
Patterns
Count
67
60
Pattern
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
***
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
From
P7
AF4
T7
PO3
CP2
Fp2
FC5
P4
FC1
O2
To
T8
Fz
T8
Fz
Fz
Pz
Pz
Fz
Pz
Fz
LLM
0.0092329644
0.0124106361
0.0132006472
0.0122896349
0.0113707576
0.0286105871
0.0247227252
0.0131916860
0.0258180555
0.0135220010
Brain
0.0574061684
0.0353470668
0.0478463955
0.0318988934
0.0354965180
0.0046792431
0.0036253983
0.0298060570
0.0075443881
0.0323396064
Pattern
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Brain > LLM
N: Low Delta dDTF LLM vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
***
***
**
Sum
2.853
1.531
0.150
0.037
0.987
Name
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Brain
167**
*
*
0.222
1.716
1.272
LLM
Brain
LLM
Patterns
Count
85
25
Pattern
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
***
***
***
***
***
***
**
**
**
**
From
T7
P4
C3
Fp2
T8
FC2
CP6
CP6
O1
CP2
To
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
T8
AF3
AF3
AF3
LLM
0.0055356044
0.0066481531
0.0051577808
0.0064280690
0.0059609916
0.0073316200
0.0099394722
0.0061139320
0.0063568186
0.0074032457
Brain
0.0238377564
0.0264943279
0.0241012853
0.0269914474
0.0232834537
0.0252493136
0.0527340844
0.0273369737
0.0207641628
0.0277446061
Pattern
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
O: Theta dDTF LLM vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
2.055
1.656
0.463
0.168
1.592
1.488
Name
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Brain
LLM
Patterns
Count
65
29
Pattern
Brain > LLM
LLM > Brain
Top 17 significant dDTF
_
From
To
LLM
Brain
Pattern
168**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
Pz
Oz
FC6
P7
T7
F4
PO3
P8
Fz
F3
AF3
CP2
Cz
FC1
CP6
T7
FC1
T8
Fz
AF3
T8
AF3
AF4
T8
Fp1
P4
AF3
F4
Fz
AF3
Fp1
T8
Fz
P4
0.0091059208
0.0099823680
0.0067529134
0.0121890167
0.0088148145
0.0089920023
0.0107502053
0.0107545285
0.0087606059
0.0088352170
0.0113520743
0.0089732390
0.0081715677
0.0113906069
0.0133324033
0.0112309493
0.0087668346
0.0406674631
0.0261260960
0.0210031085
0.0473079272
0.0203472283
0.0265191495
0.0418369472
0.0221666396
0.0210191030
0.0249290131
0.0277686417
0.0251601003
0.0205616932
0.0227161534
0.0325461328
0.0217120573
0.0202365778
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
Brain > LLM
169P: Alpha dDTF LLM vs Search sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
0.901
0.891
0.145
0.057
0.834
0.756
Name
Search
LLM
Search
LLM
LLM
Search
Patterns
Count
27
21
Pattern
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
**
**
**
**
**
**
*
*
*
*
From
P7
Oz
C3
P4
PO3
CP1
Fp1
CP5
Fp2
O1
To
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
LLM
0.0087970486
0.0092283795
0.0099685648
0.0099904742
0.0093343491
0.0096275611
0.0112507241
0.0093167229
0.0104059400
0.0094532957
Search
0.0221793801
0.0233642776
0.0250119902
0.0257726852
0.0267920364
0.0222316850
0.0278587770
0.0228794720
0.0279222466
0.0238344651
Pattern
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Q: Beta dDTF LLM vs Search sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
0.540
0.434
0.025
0.011
0.529
0.410
Name
LLM
Search
Search
LLM
LLM
Search
170Patterns
Count
12
11
Pattern
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
**
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
From
P4
P7
F3
O2
C3
AF4
P7
T8
O1
CP2
To
AF3
T8
AF3
CP5
Fp1
CP1
CP5
CP5
AF3
CP5
LLM
0.0111871595
0.0114481049
0.0132813696
0.0343008749
0.0129067414
0.0106116235
0.0332182534
0.0388851501
0.0118000023
0.0362553038
Search
0.0246165004
0.0241636131
0.0258648172
0.0118386354
0.0276799351
0.0219144132
0.0109668924
0.0132183051
0.0225637648
0.0122846328
Pattern
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
R: Delta dDTF LLM vs Search sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
0.987
0.943
0.035
0.013
0.974
0.908
Name
LLM
Search
Search
LLM
LLM
Search
Patterns
Count
28
19
Pattern
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
**
**
*
From
FC6
CP6
FC2
To
AF3
AF3
CP5
LLM
0.0054353494
0.0073925317
0.0351301804
Search
0.0166928619
0.0186577179
0.0082620606
Pattern
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
171*
*
*
*
*
*
*
Fz
O2
Cz
O2
F7
Pz
Fp1
CP5
C4
CP5
AF3
FC6
C4
C4
0.0332773142
0.0292879548
0.0293399785
0.0071197771
0.0232336055
0.0330515504
0.0294353943
0.0090165017
0.0070168097
0.0071777715
0.0183068812
0.0066238674
0.0069143879
0.0097375922
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
S: High Alpha dDTF LLM vs Search sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
0.811
0.778
0.072
0.029
0.782
0.706
Name
LLM
Search
Search
LLM
LLM
Search
Patterns
Count
23
18
Pattern
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
**
**
**
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
From
P4
Oz
P7
C3
PO3
Fp1
CP1
AF4
F4
Fp2
To
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
CP1
PO3
AF3
LLM
0.0101702549
0.0095105777
0.0088629620
0.0108373165
0.0095373075
0.0118681537
0.0102533894
0.0087881926
0.0137122478
0.0112468554
Search
0.0264985710
0.0238576774
0.0216770545
0.0257237107
0.0264764875
0.0283408798
0.0225993209
0.0188132301
0.0063472092
0.0281646103
Pattern
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
T: High Beta dDTF LLM vs Search sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
172Significance
Total
Total
*
*
Sum
0.666
0.397
0.666
0.397
Name
LLM
Search
LLM
Search
Patterns
Count
16
8
Pattern
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
From
O2
C3
P4
F4
AF3
T8
F3
P7
P3
CP2
To
CP5
Fp1
AF3
AF3
CP5
CP5
AF3
CP5
CP5
CP5
LLM
0.0352628715
0.0133787328
0.0115017248
0.0132245412
0.0362636931
0.0384531245
0.0135638537
0.0316975005
0.0404970869
0.0378199257
Search
0.0116258450
0.0285447296
0.0226653758
0.0252003726
0.0113983396
0.0136278905
0.0253517423
0.0110403411
0.0144701209
0.0127030713
Pattern
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
U: High Delta dDTF LLM vs Search sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
1.076
1.030
0.036
0.014
1.063
0.994
Name
LLM
Search
Search
LLM
LLM
Search
Patterns
Count
29
21
Pattern
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
173Top 10 significant dDTF
_
**
**
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
From
FC6
PO3
FC2
C4
Fz
P4
Fp1
CP6
F3
F4
To
AF3
Cz
CP5
CP5
CP5
Cz
C4
AF3
C4
C4
LLM
0.0062110736
0.0074518132
0.0342177972
0.0342913345
0.0310014170
0.0081403377
0.0330919102
0.0086369524
0.0301192515
0.0361996777
Search
0.0175782982
0.0184381194
0.0092286700
0.0086586270
0.0101963589
0.0176515486
0.0101025281
0.0212474763
0.0080041792
0.0090051685
Pattern
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
V: Low Alpha dDTF LLM vs Search sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
1.052
0.999
0.266
0.100
0.899
0.786
Name
Search
LLM
Search
LLM
LLM
Search
Patterns
Count
32
23
Pattern
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
Top 11 significant dDTF
_
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
**
From
P7
C3
CP5
Oz
PO3
CP1
Fp1
FC6
P4
To
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
LLM
0.0087324055
0.0090985168
0.0083776861
0.0089474460
0.0091314800
0.0090005118
0.0106308740
0.0081357993
0.0098115336
Search
0.0226799604
0.0243022647
0.0224521700
0.0228697788
0.0271076728
0.0218638554
0.0273792092
0.0209867544
0.0250487737
Pattern
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
174**
**
O1
Fp2
AF3
AF3
0.0088829836
0.0095647555
0.0235466734
0.0276839025
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
W: Low Beta dDTF LLM vs Search sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
0.740
0.642
0.048
0.019
0.692
0.623
Name
Search
LLM
Search
LLM
Search
LLM
Patterns
Count
22
13
Pattern
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
**
**
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
From
P4
AF4
Oz
PO3
Cz
P4
F3
CP1
O1
AF3
To
AF3
CP1
AF3
AF3
CP1
CP5
AF3
AF3
AF3
O2
LLM
0.0104783596
0.0086142430
0.0099506238
0.0100095291
0.0087074945
0.0443832055
0.0124810627
0.0119169857
0.0115398616
0.0215304364
Search
0.0278752223
0.0199293438
0.0260193720
0.0266625173
0.0176115539
0.0096258009
0.0269951336
0.0247493498
0.0266008191
0.0083046919
Pattern
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
X: Low Delta dDTF LLM vs Search sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
Sum
1.252
1.065
0.119
Name
Search
LLM
Search
175**
*
*
0.026
1.133
1.039
LLM
Search
LLM
Patterns
Count
29
24
Pattern
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
**
**
**
**
*
*
*
*
*
*
From
FC6
C3
O2
F4
Cz
Pz
F7
P3
FC2
F4
To
AF3
AF3
AF3
C3
F3
C4
FC6
C4
CP5
F3
LLM
0.0041945158
0.0051577808
0.0062490623
0.0104959626
0.0179644413
0.0317314863
0.0202355571
0.0320287012
0.0382866375
0.0112611325
Search
0.0173810702
0.0178317130
0.0182991140
0.0655729473
0.0053606490
0.0057266196
0.0041321553
0.0071169366
0.0073354593
0.0033041658
Pattern
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
LLM > Search
Y: Theta dDTF LLM vs Search sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
0.920
0.826
0.067
0.025
0.895
0.759
Name
LLM
Search
Search
LLM
LLM
Search
Patterns
Count
23
22
Pattern
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
From
To
LLM
Search
Pattern
176**
**
**
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
FC6
P7
PO3
C3
C4
CP5
CP1
O1
Fp2
T8
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
CP5
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
AF3
0.0067529134
0.0087416274
0.0093306787
0.0084061064
0.0385090336
0.0092844162
0.0091085583
0.0096576270
0.0090590520
0.0073361890
0.0207502935
0.0217176061
0.0247240495
0.0204392876
0.0108648464
0.0207343884
0.0186978541
0.0211501140
0.0211042576
0.0199243426
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
LLM > Search
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
Search > LLM
177Z: Alpha dDTF Search vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
*
*
Sum
0.423
0.288
0.423
0.288
Name
Brain
Search
Brain
Search
Patterns
Count
11
7
Pattern
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
From
FC5
F4
T7
Fp1
PO4
CP1
O2
P3
P4
Oz
To
T8
PO3
T8
Cz
Fp2
F4
Cz
Fp2
Fp2
O1
Search
0.0142427618
0.0067173722
0.0168062504
0.0173538905
0.0199520364
0.0131089445
0.0187859945
0.0230854899
0.0228179693
0.0332710892
Brain
0.0386272334
0.0149795311
0.0400903448
0.0048120604
0.0072283945
0.0337657258
0.0071474547
0.0072910632
0.0072914748
0.0096841250
Pattern
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
Search > Brain
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
Search > Brain
Search > Brain
Search > Brain
AA: Beta dDTF Search vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
0.417
0.355
0.023
0.010
0.394
0.345
Name
Brain
Search
Brain
Search
Brain
Search
Patterns
178Count
11
7
Pattern
Search > Brain
Brain > Search
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
**
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
From
F4
PO3
FC5
P8
Fp2
O2
CP2
AF3
T7
CP5
To
PO3
Pz
Pz
Cz
Pz
FC5
Fp2
PO4
T8
FC5
Search
0.0103996200
0.0178077873
0.0237264261
0.0080873314
0.0162958857
0.0260667782
0.0155986436
0.0146845505
0.0222635772
0.0237607248
Brain
0.0228995141
0.0061082132
0.0050002495
0.0153430570
0.0059849266
0.0109201157
0.0067197126
0.0397582725
0.0598439611
0.0116204321
Pattern
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
Search > Brain
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
Search > Brain
Search > Brain
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
AB: Delta dDTF Search vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
0.588
0.264
0.026
0.007
0.563
0.257
Name
Brain
Search
Brain
Search
Brain
Search
Patterns
Count
21
1
Pattern
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
**
*
*
*
*
From
F7
PO4
F4
F7
AF4
To
CP6
F8
F3
O2
F8
Search
0.0071646119
0.0076222750
0.0055805519
0.0059094117
0.0103875371
Brain
0.0256492142
0.0237338729
0.0124123720
0.0200678110
0.0267507732
Pattern
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
179*
*
*
*
*
O2
F3
FC1
P8
O2
C4
F4
PO4
T8
T8
0.0070168097
0.0125474343
0.0132622123
0.0082980627
0.0094988486
0.0193193648
0.0314816311
0.0288826413
0.0454199351
0.0488196611
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
AC: High Alpha dDTF Search vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
0.354
0.261
0.056
0.022
0.298
0.239
Name
Brain
Search
Brain
Search
Brain
Search
Patterns
Count
9
7
Pattern
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
**
**
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
From
F4
T7
FC5
Fp1
PO4
P4
P3
O2
CP1
O2
To
PO3
T8
T8
Cz
Fp2
Fp2
Fp2
Cz
F4
T8
Search
0.0063472092
0.0156786963
0.0137136672
0.0156556219
0.0203267150
0.0229408275
0.0224286374
0.0175121650
0.0135025708
0.0165993161
Brain
0.0153841553
0.0407465100
0.0461288802
0.0045960797
0.0073253461
0.0071475562
0.0072486522
0.0074861157
0.0324992165
0.0532871485
Pattern
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
Search > Brain
Search > Brain
Search > Brain
Search > Brain
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
AD: High Beta dDTF Search vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Sum
Name
180Total
Total
*
*
0.588
0.420
0.588
0.420
Brain
Search
Brain
Search
Patterns
Count
11
11
Pattern
Search > Brain
Brain > Search
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
From
CP5
PO3
Cz
CP1
P8
O2
F4
F8
Fz
Fz
To
FC5
Pz
Pz
CP2
Cz
FC5
PO3
T8
Pz
T8
Search
0.0242094565
0.0192164313
0.0286072921
0.0119522139
0.0081496220
0.0273940265
0.0126412623
0.0192187466
0.0255797096
0.0234895255
Brain
0.0099276677
0.0064946548
0.0106383124
0.0395089947
0.0155828726
0.0109987417
0.0253304392
0.0693298057
0.0092319287
0.0725253895
Pattern
Search > Brain
Search > Brain
Search > Brain
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
Brain > Search
AE: High Delta dDTF Search vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
**
**
*
*
Sum
0.637
0.261
0.024
0.008
0.612
0.254
Name
Brain
Search
Brain
Search
Brain
Search
Patterns
Count
26
1
Pattern
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
Top 10 significant dDTF
181_
**
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
From
F7
PO4
P4
T7
Cz
F7
Fz
Oz
FC6
O2
To
CP6
F8
F4
F4
O2
O2
FC2
F4
FC2
T8
Search
0.0075535472
0.0080983620
0.0105693676
0.0097472752
0.0072185979
0.0059885713
0.0082275085
0.0107878270
0.0075093210
0.0108994376
Brain
0.0241503417
0.0245001893
0.0289733168
0.0233324058
0.0216082521
0.0206761062
0.0224292856
0.0281294771
0.0188943688
0.0460002236
Pattern
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
Brain > Search
AF: Low Alpha dDTF Search vs Brain-only sessions 1, 2, 3
Total dDTF sum across only significant pairs
Significance
Total
Total
*
*
Sum
0.511
0.344
0.511
0.344
Name
Brain
Search
Brain
Search
Patterns
Count
14
8
Pattern
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
Top 10 significant dDTF
_
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
From
CP1
O2
T7
Oz
P3
Oz
Fp1
FC6
PO4
O1
To
F4
Cz
FC2
F4
Fp2
O1
Cz
F4
Fp2
Cz
Search
0.0127150305
0.0200613253
0.0098198820
0.0138323829
0.0237348787
0.0348113030
0.0190535523
0.0125010964
0.0195747800
0.0137652829
Brain
0.0350378342
0.0068059885
0.0247571431
0.0425001830
0.0073327795
0.0095467893
0.0050228997
0.0366672762
0.0071322811
0.0052574752
Pattern
Brain > Search
Search > Brain
B